Hi we’re here at Presqu’ile Provincial
Park, and I’m with Dave, and we’re in
the marsh. Things are going to get a little
mucky. But very cool…
So, here we are at the Presqu’ile marsh
and this is one of the coolest spots, and
some would say the coolest spot, at Presqu’ile.
Yeah, it looks great! And not only is it a
beautiful place to walk through, it is full
of really cool creatures. And I thought since
we’re dressed for the occasion, we’d go
in with our nets. Yeah, this is yours. How
come I get… why do I get a little pink one?
Well, you’re a rookie… I didn’t want
you to hurt yourself or anything.
Now of course you don’t have to wade in
the water to enjoy our marsh. We do have an
800 meter boardwalk that goes through the
marsh so people can come and experience it
without getting their feet wet. But sometimes
it is fun, with the kids and the adults, to
see what you can find when you scoop through
the water.
One of the best things about the park of course,
is our bird migration. Easily in the spring
we’ll see well over 100 species… probably
close to 200 species of birds will be coming
straight here. So 100 different species? So
this is like a birder’s paradise here? Easy…
easy you can see 100 different species a day
some days, so yeah it’s a birders paradise.
And people come in May, some people come all
year around to see birds, because different
times of year, different birds, but May is
my personal favourite time of the year because
that’s when the birds are in their breeding
plumage, they’re at their brightest colours.
Beautiful oranges and yellows. Yep, almost
as good as a warbler, almost as good as a
warbler! Be careful what I might attract here.
You never know! (Bird sounds) Was that good?
Absolutely, I’m surprised we’re not being
mobbed right now actually!
One of the cool things about Presqu’ile
is we actually have a program here to look
after the park and re-forest it. This was
all naturally forested, and during European
settlement it was all cleared. So these fields
are actually non-native habitats. So by having
our own nursery, we can help to bring some
of these fields back. So a reforestation of
old farmland? That’s exactly right… reforestation
of old farmland! We use all native species
that we, as I said, the seeds that are collected
right here in the park. And it’s cool because
we have a lot of people that do this. It’s
not just staff that do this. We get a lot
of school groups come in and other volunteers.
And anybody that’s interested can get a-hold
of us and we’ll get a working group together,
get out and plant trees where they need to
be planted.
Well Doug, we’ve seen a lot of cool things
in the park. Very cool! But this might be
the coolest! This is the Presqu’ile lighthouse.
Built in 1840, it is the second oldest, continuously
operating lighthouse on the Great Lakes. Wow!
And it’s the only lighthouse found in a
provincial park! And there were lots and lots
of shipwrecks in this area… well over 100
shipwrecks within about a 30/40 year period.
Wow! There was a lot of loss of life, and
they finally got this lighthouse built. And
it’s an icon for the park, and an icon for
the town. And there it is, the Presqu’ile
lighthouse!
Okay Dave, we finally got one in nice and
straight. Fabulous job. Great job, eh? Yes,
let’s go! We’re outta here, let’s go!